#summary ChangeLog for every projects in networkpx
#labels Phase-Design
<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

<wiki:comment>
= 0.2-12 =

(Tentative)

== ℏClipboard ==
 * Added localizations:
  * Arabic

== ⌘ (Command) ==
 * Initial beta release.
</wiki:comment>

= 0.1-10 =

== iKeyEx ==
 * Variants can use labels as well. (issue 68).
 * Added "Email diagnosis info" button in settings to ease bug reporting.
 * Fixed issue 70.
 * Added localizations:
  * Arabic (thanks zomoo1)

== 5-Row QWERTY Keyboard ==
 * Added localizations:
  * Arabic (thanks zomoo1)
  * Italian (thanks sagitt)

<p align="center">↑↑↑ Future Releases ↑↑↑</p>
<hr />
<p align="center">↓↓↓ Current Releases ↓↓↓</p>

= 0.1-8 =

== iKeyEx ==
 * Fixes crashing in pre-2.2 firmwares. See issue 67 for detail.

== 5-Row QWERTY Keyboard ==
 * Supports Korean and Japanese QWERTY.
 * Change the top row from numbers to symbols by default. Or disable it to revert to a 4-row keyboard.
 * Control keys are default in the 123 keyboard now. You can also change this defaults in the settings.

= 0.1-7 =

== iKeyEx ==
 * Fixed issue 61.
 * Fixed issue 59. Keys near the edge will extend its sensitive region.
 * Added an "Uninstall iKeyEx" button in preferences.
 * Clearing cache and fixing permission can be done faster.

== 5-Row QWERTY Keyboard ==
 * Fixed issue 63. "?" is available where "•" was.
 * Added a preference page for 5-Row QWERTY Keyboard, where you can:
   * Change the keyboard layout to one of QWERTY, QWERTZ, QZERTY, AZERTY, Russian, Ukrainian, Greek, Colemak and ABCDEF.
   * Totally customize the special characters.
   * Change the auto-correction language. Supports Chinese and Japanese IME as well.
   * Clear cache.
 * Long-press the "1" key to show some commonly used punctuations. Thanks Scott Phillips for suggestion.

= 0.1-6 =

== iKeyEx ==
 * Fixed issue 9: Enable iKeyEx keyboards on install.
 * Fixed issue 7. Now iKeyEx can run on 2.0 and 2.1 firmware also.
 * Fixed issue 2. The Globe can be used to exclusively switch to iKeyEx keyboards.
 * Fixed issue 31. Auto-correction dictionaries can be recognized properly.
 * Fixed issue 42. Thanks Tomi for reporting.
 * Rewritten Graphics generation engine for flexibility (issue 5, issue 41).
 * layout.plist gets more options (issue 20, issue 21, issue 32). See [Creating_layout_plist] for the newest spec. 
 * iKeyEx gets an preference pane. Individual keyboards can create one too (issue 30). 
 * The ".com" accents should now be placed in the correct position.
 * Added localizations:
   * Italian (thanks sagitt)
   * Finnish (thanks Tomi)
   * Russian (thanks r...@pisem.net).
   * German (thanks simonkoch).
   * German and Dutch (thanks fabcamps).
   * Turkish (thanks oguz çolakoglu).

== 5 Row QWERTY ==
 * Initial release.

= 0.1-5 =

== ℏClipboard ==
 * Fixed issue 14: The clipboard order can be customized.
 * Fixed issue 23: The undo button now replaces the delete key.
 * Fixed issue 8: Selection copy on read-only text area is now possible.
 * Secure text copying is now possible. 
 * ℏClipboard now gets a preference pane.
 * Theming is recognized. Icon and font color will be adjusted for bright keyboard themes.
 * Number indicators are constructed with images dynamically now instead of reusing Emoji. As a result, templates get an indicator also. 
 * Added localizations:
   * Italian, Finnish, German and Dutch
   * Japanese (thanks tokihide).
 * Minor fixes.

= 0.1-4 =

== MathTyper ==
 * Added x̄, x̂, ȳ and ŷ to the list. (Thanks Danstan Bagenda for suggestion.)

= 0.1-3 =

== !MultiTap ==
 * Initial beta.

== !L33tTyper ==
 * No longer crashes when typing with 2 fingers (r90).

= 0.0-2 =

== ℏClipboard ==
 * Fixes issue 12: Templates get wiped out. Especially thanks to Robin helping me finding the cause of bug. 
 * Added Italian (thanks sagitt), Greek (thanks parrr85) and Turkish localization (thanks oguz çolakoglu).
 * Recognizes selections made by Clippy.

= 0.0-1 =

== iKeyEx, ℏClipboard, !MathTyper, !L33tTyper, Colemak ==

Initial RC version.