#summary How to compile networkpx projects from the svn trunk
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Requirement =

The networkpx projects are developed on an 64-bit Intel Mac OS X 10.6.2 with the official iPhone SDK 3.0 or above. Other platforms may be unsupported. You also need to have my [http://github.com/kennytm/iphone-private-frameworks iPhone private frameworks] for the unofficial headers.

 * Install the official iPhone SDK 3.1.2 from [http://developer.apple.com/iphone/ [apple]]. You will need a (free) ADC account. 
 * Download _ldid_ from [http://code.google.com/p/networkpx/downloads/detail?name=ldid.zip [networkpx]], or compile it from source in [http://svn.telesphoreo.org/trunk/data/ldid/ [telesphoreo]]. Put the binary into `/usr/local/bin/`.
 * Install svn, e.g. from [http://homepage.mac.com/martinott/ [martinott]].
 * Install git and clone `git://github.com/kennytm/iphone-private-frameworks.git`.

= Compiling =

 # Check out the latest source code by
   {{{
svn checkout http://networkpx.googlecode.com/ <directory-save-as>  
   }}}
 # Go to the directory you have just checked out, and move into the `svn/trunk/` subdirectory.
 # Run: `./makedeb.sh`. This will compile all codes and construct the packages.
 # Move back to `../../`. You should see the Debian packages now. 

In summary,
{{{
#!/bin/bash

mkdir ~/networkpx/
cd ~/networkpx/
svn co http://networkpx.googlecode.com/ .
cd svn/trunk/
./makedeb.sh
cd ../../
ls *.deb
}}}

= Installing on Device =

Like all Debian packages, you just need to ssh into your device and `dpkg -i` on the package you've just compiled.