#summary Frequently asked questions
#labels Phase-Support,Featured

= I have installed !IntelliScreen and iKeyEx does not work. =
By default !IntelliScreen disabled any !MobileSubstrate extensions. To enable iKeyEx, please go to the Performance option in !IntelliScreen, then enable !PrefHooker-iKeyEx and SBHooker-iKeyEx. 

= How do I uninstall iKeyEx? =
You should be able to find iKeyEx in Cydia → Manage → Packages. If you still can't find it in Cydia, go to Settings → iKeyEx → Troubleshooting, and press "Uninstall iKeyEx".

If not, try to switch on "Keyboard Extension" in Sections -> Edit.

= How to enable T9 in !MultiTap? =

T9 is a [http://www.google.com/patents?id=PmgCAAAAEBAJ patented] technology and therefore I won't official include it in !MultiTap (unless all software patents are considered invalid). But there's someone else is working on T9. See issue 36 for detail. 

= _«some keyboard»_ does not work! Pressing the Globe brings me nothing new. =
Please go to Settings → iKeyEx → International Keyboards, and turn on _«some keyboard»_.

= My favorite theme is not applied to _«some keyboard»_. =
For performance iKeyEx will generate cache to images used in keyboards. However, this cache is kept even after you have changed the !WinterBoard theme. The new and old theme will mix strangely as a result.

To solve this, you have to clear the cache manually. Just go to Settings → iKeyEx → Troubleshooting, and press "Clear layout cache". The cache will be regenerated then.

= The phone crashes whenever the keyboard appears. =
Please go to Settings → iKeyEx → Troubleshooting, and press "Email Diagnosis Info" to let me know what's wrong.