= Specification =

{{{

// TODO: Transform into human-readable format.

struct GPTableViewAlert {
  array<Button> buttons = ({});  // Buttons of the alert. Requires at least 1 button. 
  string title;                                // Alert title.
  bool backButton = false;                     // Whether to show the "back" button.
  array<Entry> entries;                        // Table entries.
};

union Button {
  struct {
    string label = "OK"; // Label of the button.
    string id = label;      // Identifier of the button.
  };
  string;         // Use this string as label.
};

union Entry {
 struct {
  bool header = false;        // Whether to treat this entry as a section header.
  string title;               // Entry title.
  string id = title;          // Identifier of this entry. Should be unique.
  string subtitle = nil :: header == false;  // subtitle.
  bool noselect = false :: header == false;  // Mark that this item cannot be selected.
  Icon icon = null :: header == false;           // Icon of the entry.
  bool reorder = false :: header == false && accessory == null;       // Whether to display the reorder control for this row.
  enum{Add,Delete} action = null :: header == false; // Display a "+" or "-" sign.
  string description = null :: header == false;    // description.
  bool edit = false :: header == false;   // Make the description as an editing text view.
  int lines = 5 :: description != null;   // _Maximum_ number of lines the description view should occupy. Put a nonpositive number here for unbounded height when edit == false.
  bool secure = false :: lines == 1 && edit == true; // The editing text view contains secure text (i.e. shown as • and disable copy&cut.)
  string placeholder = "" :: lines == 1 && edit == true; // The placeholder of the editing text view when it is empty.
  Accessory accessory = null :: header == false && reorder == false; // accessory
  array<Button> buttons = null :: header == false;        // Buttons associated with this entry.
 };
 string;                     // Just the title.
};

union Icon {
  data(image);                       // Icon as image.
  string(bundleID);                  // Icon with display identifier
  string(regex/^[\uE000-\uE5FF]$/);  // Emoji icon.
};

enum Accessory {
    Checkmark,
    DisclosureIndicator,
    DisclosureButton,
};

}}}

= Delegate methods =

When a button is clicked, the following method will be called:
{{{
-(void)tableViewAlert:(GPTableViewAlert*)alert buttonClicked:(NSString*)identifier forItem:(NSString*)item;
}}}
`item` is nil if it's a button from the alert view instead of an item. `identifier` is `@"__BACK__"` if the back button is tapped.

When two entries are rearranged, the following method will be called:
{{{
-(void)tableViewAlert:(GPTableViewAlert*)alert movedItem:(NSString*)targetID below:(NSString*)belowID;
}}}
If the item is moved to the start of a group, `belowID` will be the ID of the header. If the group is headerless, `belowID` will be `@""`.

When an editing control (+ or -) is pressed, the following method will be called:
{{{
-(void)tableViewAlert:(GPTableViewAlert*)alert editedWithAction:(UITableViewCellEditingStyle)action forItem:(NSString*)item;
}}}

When a leaf entry is tapped, the following method will be called:
{{{
-(void)tableViewAlert:(GPTableViewAlert*)alert selectedItem:(NSString*)item;
}}}

= Usage =

You can display a GPTableViewAlert using:
{{{
NSDictionary* alertSpec = ...;
GPTableViewAlert* alert = [GPTableViewAlert alertWithDictionary:alertSpec];
alert.delegate = ...;
}}}
and request to update the view using one of:
{{{
// custom animation.
[alert updateToDictionary:alertSpec2 withAnimation:GPTVAAnimationTransitionCurlUp];
// use predefined animations
[alert pushDictionary:alertSpec2];
[alert popToDictionary:alertSpec2];
}}}
The `buttons` in `alertSpec2` of this method will be ignored.
