#summary Guide for localizers on what keys are left untranslated.
#labels Phase-Design

<wiki:toc/>

All projects of networkpx are designed to be localizable, but I don't know all languages in the world, so the translations must be provided by others. Fortunately, there are quite a number of volunteers helping me out on this. However, the projects here are still growing quite fast, and it is easy that new translation cannot be caught up. 

To avoid localizers from having to dig the svn tree every time something changes, I have created this page as a quick reference on what is not translated.

In all networkpx projects, the *English* (en), *Spanish* (es) and *Chinese* (zh_TW and zh_CN) will always be fully translated. The rest are provided by volunteers and the availability will be listed in the tables below.
 * ✓ = Translation available.
 *    = Translation not available.

If you want to fill in the blanks or provide a completely new language, you can simply write a comment in issue 11.

= iKeyEx =

The _lproj_'s are located in `/svn/trunk/hk.kennytm.iKeyEx/deb/System/Library/PreferenceBundles/iKeyEx.bundle/`.

|| *Key*                           || *el* || *fi* || *it* || *ja* || *ru* || *tr* ||
|| Keyboards for Current Language  ||      || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   || ✓    || ✓    ||
|| iKeyEx Keyboards                ||      || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   || ✓    || ✓    ||
|| Other Built-in Keyboards        ||      || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   || ✓    || ✓    ||
|| Clear layout cache              ||      || ✓    ||      || ✓    ||      ||      ||
|| Clear lookup cache (!WordTrie)  ||      || ✓    ||      || ✓    ||      ||      ||
|| Clear image cache               ||      || ✓    ||      || ✓    ||      ||      ||
|| `CLEAR_IMAGE_CACHE_DESCRIPTION` ||      || ✓    ||      ||      ||      ||      ||

Note: the complete message of `CLEAR_IMAGE_CACHE_DESCRIPTION` is _"iKeyEx caches some generated images for performance. However, if you change theme you must clear the cache to sync with it."_

= ℏClipboard =

The _lproj_'s are located in `/svn/trunk/hk.kennytm.hClipboard/deb/Library/iKeyEx/Keyboards/hClipboard.keyboard/` and `/svn/trunk/hk.kennytm.hClipboard/deb/Library/iKeyEx/Keyboards/hClipboard.keyboard/Preferences.bundle/`.

|| *Key*                               || *el* || *fi* || *it* || *ja* || *ru* || *tr* ||
|| Copy                                || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   ||      ||      || ✓    ||
|| Select from here...                 || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   ||      ||      || ✓    ||
|| Select to here and copy             || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   ||      ||      || ✓    ||
|| Move to beginning                   || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   ||      ||      || ✓    ||
|| Move to end                         || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   ||      ||      || ✓    ||
|| Switch to Clipboard                 || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   ||      ||      || ✓    ||
|| Switch to Templates                 || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   ||      ||      || ✓    ||
|| Add to templates                    || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   ||      ||      || ✓    ||
|| Select to here and add to templates || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   ||      ||      || ✓    ||
|| Clipboard is empty                  || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   ||      ||      || ✓    ||
|| No templates                        || ✓    || ✓    || ✓   ||      ||      || ✓    ||
|| <Secure Text `%u` chars>            ||      || ✓    ||      ||      ||      ||      ||
|| Cannot paste                        ||      || ✓    ||      ||      ||      ||      ||
|| `SECURITY_BREACH_MESSAGE`           ||      || ✓    ||      ||      ||      ||      ||
|| Undo                                ||      ||      ||      ||      ||      ||      ||
|| Redo                                ||      ||      ||      ||      ||      ||      ||
|| Toggle editing mode                 ||      ||      ||      ||      ||      ||      ||
|| Cut                                 ||      ||      ||      ||      ||      ||      ||
|| Delete                              ||      ||      ||      ||      ||      ||      ||

Note: the complete message of `SECURITY_BREACH_MESSAGE` is _"Cannot put secure data into non-secure text fields."_.